Each exam prep course includes a brief overview of the exam topics. For more information in any of the overview outlined, refer to the recommended courses in Module 2. For the exam, ensure you understand that machine learning is a subset of artificial intelligence, along with deep learning, neural networks, natural language processing, computer vision, and robotics. Another fundamental needed for the exam is to ensure you understand the different types of machine learning, supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning. These are the three main types of machine learning and for each type of machine learning, there are multiple machine learning algorithms. For the exam, ensure you also understand the different types of machine learning problems and use cases. For your workloads in AWS you can choose from three different levels of machine learning services. Machine learning frameworks and infrastructure, machine learning services, and artificial intelligence services. This is called the AWS machine learning stack. On the bottom of the stack there is the infrastructure and machine learning frameworks such as, Amazon EC2 instances, Amazon Machine Images, graphic processing units, containers, and more. Everything is built on top of this infrastructure layer. Then on top of the infrastructure layer is the AWS machine learning services that we will cover in upcoming lessons. But a focus for this exam is Amazon SageMaker. And then on top of the machine learning layer, we have the AWS artificial intelligence services, which are prebuilt services, prebuilt algorithms, models, and services that you can use. These are prebuilt models already trained by AWS, and you can use these services and integrate them into your application. So if you know how to integrate with an application programming interface, write code, and work with the AWS software development kit, then you can use these services without having to understand machine learning and artificial intelligence. And we'll continue to talk about the AWS machine learning stack as we progress through the course. Machine learning can make predictions about questions we define, and it is important to understand that we must define these questions. For example, if we ask machine learning, "Is this a picture of a fish?" At this point, can machine learning tell you that this is a picture of a fish? No, instead, we need to reword the question to be more specific and add data. What we are asking is, can a given set of numbers predict some other numbers? And remember that images are a set of pixels and pixels are a set of numbers. So the machine learning algorithm uses those numbers for each pixel of the image to make a prediction. In the next lesson, we'll review the machine learning lifecycle. 


Let's continue with our machine learning overview and talk about the machine learning lifecycle. The first step of the machine learning lifecycle is collecting data. Collecting a lot of quality data to input into your algorithm is probably the most important step in the machine learning lifecycle. Sometimes the collection of data is a responsibility of domain experts, but as machine learning engineers, you can also participate in this step. The second step is to process the data to ensure the quality of the data is high, ensure there is no missing data, ensure there is no erroneous data, and to manipulate the data to be as efficient as possible to load into the algorithm. The third step is to select an algorithm to yield the best results for the problem you're trying to solve, and then to use the selected algorithm to train the model and to generate a model that you can use to derive value. The fourth step is to train the model. The fifth step is to host the model somewhere to compute the answers to the questions for the problem you're trying to solve. And the last step is to make inference, and this is completed by using the model with new data. We also added a link for the machine learning lifecycle in AWS. This lifecycle includes six steps. Step one is to identify the business goal. Step two is to frame the business problem as a machine learning problem. Step three is to process the data. Step four is to develop the model. Step five is to deploy the model. And step six is to monitor the model. Let's get started with our next lesson and learn about exam-style questions. 


