Let's get started with Domain 1, which covers data preparation for machine learning. For this domain, we'll continue to talk about machine learning and the first two steps of the machine learning lifecycle. Remember, the first step of the machine learning lifecycle is collecting a lot of quality data to input into your algorithm. The second step is to process the data to ensure the quality of the data is high, ensure there is no missing data, ensure there is no erroneous data, and to manipulate the data to be as efficient as possible. Domain 1 is broken into three task statements that we will discuss over the next few lessons. Task statement 1.1, ingest and store data. Task statement 1.2, transform data and perform feature engineering. Task statement 1.3, ensure data integrity and prepare data for modeling. For the first task statement to ingest and store data, you'll need to understand how to ingest data and extract data from the different AWS storage services based on the storage access patterns, data formats and structures, cost, and performance. This task statement also covers troubleshooting and debugging data ingestion and storage issues involving scalability and capacity. For the second task statement to transform data and perform feature engineering, ensure you understand AWS services and tools and the techniques to clean and transform your data. You should also understand the AWS tools to explore, visualize, and transform the features of your data. This includes feature engineering and encoding techniques in AWS services to validate and label your data. For the third task statement, to ensure data integrity and prepare data for modeling, ensure you understand techniques such as classification, anonymization, and masking your data. You should also understand the AWS services that can help you to encrypt your data. This task statement will focus on data integrity and validating data quality, identifying and mitigating bias, and reducing the bias prediction. Over the next few videos, I will address each task statement individually, breaking down the knowledge and skills expected of you to be successful. Let's get started evaluating your readiness for the exam, in the next lesson where we will cover the first task statement from Domain 1. 