Let's get started with Domain 2, which covers machine learning model development. In Domain 1, we talked about the first two steps of the machine learning lifecycle to collect data and to process data. This domain covers the third step, which is to use the selected algorithm to train the model, and to generate a model you can use to derive value, and the fourth step, which is to train the model. And for the well-architected machine learning lifecycle, this domain covers step four, which is model development. Domain 2 is broken into three task statements that we'll cover over the next few lessons. Task statement 2.1: Choose a modeling approach, task statement 2.2: train and refine models, task statement 2.3: analyze model performance. For the first task statement to choose a modeling approach, you will need to understand the capabilities and appropriate use cases of machine learning algorithms to solve problems, including SageMaker's built-in algorithms, how to use the AWS artificial intelligence services to solve specific problems, and how to consider interpretability during the model or algorithm selection. For the second task statement, to train and refine models, ensure you understand the training process, methods to reduce the model training time, factors that influence the model size, benefits of regularization techniques, hyperparameters tuning techniques, how model hyperparameters affect model performance, and how to integrate models built outside of SageMaker. For the third task statement, to analyze model performance, you'll need to know model evaluation metrics and techniques, and methods to create performance baselines, convergent issues, and metrics available in SageMaker Clarify to gain insights into your machine learning training data and models. Over the next few videos, I will address each task statement individually breaking down the knowledge and skills expected of you to be successful. Let's get started evaluating your readiness for the exam, in the next lesson, where we will cover the first task statement from Domain 2. 