Let's get started with our third walkthrough question which is from task statement 2.1, choose a modeling approach. The question reads, "A company wants to use computer vision to limit access to restricted areas only to authorized personnel. The company already has cameras that upload images to Amazon S3 buckets. The company only has a few pictures of the authorized personnel, which might not be sufficient to train a facial recognition model from scratch. Which solution meets the requirement with the least operational overhead?" Reading this question, can you identify any keywords or phrases? Also, what exactly is the question asking? A few keywords are to use computer vision to limit access to restricted areas only to authorized personnel. Have cameras that upload images to Amazon S3 buckets. But you only have a few pictures of the authorized personnel, which might not be sufficient to train a facial recognition model from scratch. And you need to use a solution with the least operational overhead. We have not talked about computer vision much in this course, but there is an upcoming lesson under task statement 3.1 about computer vision and Amazon SageMaker Neo. And I bring this up because Neo helps to optimize your ML models, including computer vision to run at the edge. But remember, we need to read the scenario and choose our best-choice answer from the requirements given and the answer options given. And a keyword for this question is least operational overhead. It is important to evaluate each question as it is and to not add anything else to the questions. Now that we have examined the stem, identified keywords, and reviewed the requirements, let's explore the responses. Option A, build a computer vision model with Amazon Rekognition Custom Labels. Option B, run computer vision models optimized with Amazon SageMaker Neo. Option C, train a computer vision model by using Amazon SageMaker built-in algorithms. Option D, create a computer vision model by using Amazon Lookout for Vision to detect unauthorized personnel. Pause the video if you need more time. Okay, let's evaluate the options. Option A is a possible correct answer. Amazon Rekognition is a service to build applications with image and video analysis. Amazon Rekognition is trained on tens of millions of images. You can use transfer learning and Amazon Rekognition custom labels to build a facial recognition model with a small number of images. Let's review the other answers because it is important to read all of the options before selecting your best choice. Option B is incorrect. SageMaker Neo gives developers the ability to optimize machine learning models, including computer vision models to run on edge devices. However, because the data is already flowing into Amazon S3, there is no need to deploy a solution at the edge. This option does not help the company build facial recognition models with a limited dataset. Option C is incorrect. SageMaker built-in algorithms are optimized implementations of common machine learning models that are provided and maintained by AWS. Although there are SageMaker built-in algorithms for object detection, this method requires the company to collect a large dataset to train the facial recognition model. Therefore, this method is not the option with the least operational overhead. Option D is also incorrect. Amazon Lookout for Vision is a machine learning service that uses computer vision to detect anomalies in manufactured products at scale. However, Amazon Lookout for Vision is not well suited to support face recognition scenarios. So, that makes option A correct. That's all for this question. Be sure to take note of any knowledge gaps that you have identified while exploring this question. Let's get started with a fourth walkthrough question. 

