Let's get started with Domain 3, which covers the deployment and orchestration of machine learning workloads. This domain covers the fifth step of the machine learning lifecycle, which is to host the model. For the well-architected machine learning lifecycle, Domain 3 covers step five, which is deployment. Domain 3 is broken into three task statements that we'll discuss over the next few lessons. Task statement 3.1, select deployment infrastructure based on existing architectures and requirements. Task statement 3.2, create and script infrastructure based on existing architectures and requirements. And task statement 3.3, use automated orchestration tools to set up continuous integration and continuous delivery pipelines. For the first task statement, to select deployment infrastructure based on existing architectures and requirements, you will need to understand deployment best practices, including model and endpoint requirements for deployment endpoints, methods to optimize models on edge devices, and methods to serve machine learning models in real time and in batches. This task statement also covers provisioning compute resources, which we began talking about under Domain 2. For the second task statement, to create and script infrastructure based on existing architectures and requirements, we will dive deeper into the provision resources, scaling policies, infrastructure as code, containerization, and how to use SageMaker endpoint auto scaling policies. For the third task statement, to use automated orchestration tools to set up continuous integration and continuous delivery pipelines, ensure you understand CI/CD principles and how they fit into your machine learning workflows. Ensure you understand how to add automation and integration of your data ingestion with orchestration services, how to use version control systems, and how your code repository works when a pipeline is invoked. Under this task statement, you also need to know deployment strategies, which is also under task statement 3.1, but this task statement dives deeper into rollback actions. Over the next few videos, I'll address each task statement individually, breaking down the knowledge and skills expected of you to be successful. Let's get started evaluating your readiness for the exam in the next video, where we will cover the first task statement from Domain 3. 