Let's get started with Domain 4, which covers machine learning solution monitoring, maintenance, and security. Throughout this course, we have been talking about the first five steps of the machine learning lifecycle and the well-architected machine learning lifecycle. Domain 4 covers the sixth step of both lifecycles, which is to make inference and model monitoring. Domain 4 is broken into three task statements that we'll discuss over the next few lessons. Task statement 4.1: Monitor model inference. Task statement 4.2: Monitor and optimize infrastructure costs. And task statement 4.3: Secure AWS resources. For the first task statement, to monitor model inference, you will need to understand drift in your machine learning models, techniques to monitor data quality and model performance, and the design principles for machine learning lenses that are relevant to monitoring. The second task statement, to monitor and optimize infrastructure costs, is broken into two parts, optimizing your infrastructure and optimizing your costs. For the first part of this task statement, ensure you know how to identify key performance metrics for your machine learning infrastructure. Also ensure you know the AWS monitoring and observability tools that you can use to troubleshoot latency and performance issues. For the second part of this task statement, which is cost optimization, ensure you know the differences between instance types and how the different instance types affect performance. And ensure you know how to use the AWS cost analysis tools, cost tracking, and allocation techniques. For the third task statement, to secure AWS resources, you will need to know how to use IAM roles, policies, and groups, bucket policies, and Amazon SageMaker Role Manager to control access to your AWS services. This task statement also covers SageMaker security and compliance features, network access controls to your machine learning resources, and security best practices for your CI/CD pipelines. Over the next few videos, I will address each task statement individually, breaking down the knowledge and skills expected of you to be successful. Let's get started evaluating your readiness for the exam in the next video, where we will cover the first task statement from Domain 4. 