Let's get started with the fifth walkthrough question, which is from task statement 3.1. Describe design considerations for applications that use foundation models. The question reads, "An ML engineer wants to implement Retrieval Augmented Generation, RAG, for a foundation model, FM. The ML engineer must select a database service that supports similarity search and that can store vector embeddings for RAG implementation. Which AWS services will meet these requirements? Select two." Reading this question, can you identify any keywords or phrases? Also, what exactly is the question asking? A few keywords I see are implement Retrieval Augmented Generation, RAG, and foundation model, FM. Another key phrase is select a database service that supports similarity search and store vector embeddings. The question is asking you to choose two AWS services to meet these requirements. Now that we have examined the stem, identified keywords, and review the requirements, let's explore the responses. Option A, Amazon OpenSearch Service. Option B, Amazon DynamoDB. Option C, Amazon Redshift. Option D, Amazon RDS for MySQL. Or option E, Amazon RDS for PostgreSQL. Pause the video if you need more time. Okay, let's evaluate the options. Option A is a possible correct answer. OpenSearch Service is a managed service that you can use to deploy and manage OpenSearch clusters. OpenSearch Service is a suitable solution for a vector store because OpenSearch Service has built in K nearest neighbor, KNN, and semantic search capabilities. You can use either of these capabilities to find similar embeddings. Even though this answer is possibly correct, it's a best practice to review all the answer options before choosing your best choice answer. And remember, you need to select two answers for this question. Option B is incorrect. DynamoDB is a fully managed serverless NoSQL database that provides low-latency lookups of items based on keys. DynamoDB is a key-value database that does not have similarity search capabilities. Therefore, you cannot use DynamoDB as a vector store for RAG implementation. Option C is incorrect. Amazon Redshift is a fully managed columnar petabyte-scale data warehouse on AWS. Amazon Redshift is not suitable as a vector store. Amazon Redshift can run complex SQL queries for reporting purposes. You would not use Amazon Redshift to search for similar data in a multi-dimensional vector space. Option D is incorrect. You can use Amazon RDS to deploy and manage relational databases that support a variety of database engines, including MySQL. However, RDS from MySQL does not support similarity search of a multi-dimensional vector space. Therefore, RDS for MySQL is not suitable for a vector store. Option E is correct. You can use Amazon RDS to deploy and manage relational databases that support a variety of database engines, including PostgreSQL. The PostgreSQL database engine supports the pgvector extension. The pgvector extension can provide vector similarity search capabilities for PostgreSQL. Therefore, RDS for PostgreSQL is a suitable solution for a vector database. So that makes option A and option E the correct answers. That's all for this question. Be sure to take note of any knowledge gaps that you may have identified while exploring this question. Let's get started with our sixth walkthrough question. 

Let's get started with our sixth walkthrough question, which is from task statement 3.3, "Describe the training and fine-tuning process for foundation models." The question reads, "An online education company is developing an AI teaching assistant by using a foundation model, FM. The company wants to ensure that the AI teaching assistant can understand and follow directions and can provide guided responses. Which technique should the company use to meet these requirements?" Reading this question, can you identify any keywords or phrases? Also, what exactly is the question asking? A few keywords identified are, "Developing an AI teaching assistant." Another key phrase is, "You need to ensure that the AI teaching assistant can understand and follow directions and provide guided responses." And the question wants you to choose a technique to meet these requirements. Which technique should the company use to meet these requirements? Now that we have examined the stem, identified keywords, and reviewed the requirements, let's explore the responses. Option A: Pre-training. Option B: Instruction tuning. Option C: Domain adaptation. Option D: Continuous pre-training. Pause the video if you need more time. Okay, let's evaluate the options. Option A is incorrect. Pre-training refers to the process of training a model on a large dataset before fine-tuning the model. The company already uses an FM, therefore, the model has already been pre-trained on large amounts of data. You cannot use pre-training to ensure that the AI teaching assistant can understand and follow directions or provide guided responses. Option B is a possible correct answer. Instruction tuning refers to the process of providing specific labeled examples to train a model on a specific task. Instruction tuning can help models follow specific tasks or responses to prompts in a specific way. Therefore, this technique can improve the model's performance. Instruction tuning will improve the model by teaching the model how to understand and follow directions. Remember, it is best practice to review all the response options before choosing your best choice answer. Option C is incorrect. Domain adaptation refers to the technique that you can use to fine-tune a model on a specific domain or context. Domain adaptation can be helpful for use cases that require the model to understand industry-specific terminology or language. You cannot use domain adaptation to ensure that the AI teaching assistant can understand and follow directions or provide guided responses. Option D is incorrect. Continuous pre-training refers to the continual training process that you can perform on an ML model when new data becomes available. Continuous pre-training is helpful to reduce data drift and to ensure that model performance stays consistent. You cannot use continuous pre-training to ensure that the AI teaching assistant can understand and follow directions or provide guided responses. So, that makes option B the correct answer. That's all for this question. Be sure to take note of any knowledge gaps that you might have identified while exploring this question. Now is your chance to practice and dive deeper on Domain 3 topics before continuing to Domain 4. If you are taking the enhanced course, you'll move on to bonus questions, flashcards, and a lab. Whether you're taking the standard or enhanced course, you'll see a list of additional resources to learn more about the topics covered. 