Let's get started with the ninth walkthrough question, which is from task statement 5.1. Explain methods to secure AI systems. The question reads, a company uses Amazon SageMaker to deploy ML models. The company must identify a way to document important details about the ML models in one place to help with reporting and governance throughout the model lifecycle. Which feature of SageMaker will meet these requirements? Reading this question, can you identify any keywords or phrases? Also, what exactly is the question asking? A few keywords identified are SageMaker, deploy ML models, identify, document important details about the ML models in one place for reporting and governance throughout the model lifecycle. And you need to choose a feature of SageMaker that will meet these requirements. Now that we have examined the stem, identified keywords, and reviewed the requirements, let's explore the responses. Option A, SageMaker Model Cards, option B, SageMaker foundation model evaluations, FMEval, option C, SageMaker Data Wrangler, or Option D, SageMaker Ground Truth. Pause the video if you need more time. Okay, let's evaluate the options. Option A is a possible correct answer. You can use SageMaker Model Cards to document important details about an ML model in one place. SageMaker Model Cards can help streamline reporting and governance. Remember to review all answer options to choose your best choice answer. Option B is incorrect. You can use FMEval to evaluate an ML model for risks such as toxic content and inaccuracy. You can use FMEval to help choose the most suitable model for a specific use case. FMEval does not help with documenting model details in one place. Option C is incorrect. You can use SageMaker Data Wrangler as a preprocessing and feature engineering tool for ML workflows. SageMaker Data Wrangler requires minimal or no code. You cannot use SageMaker Data Wrangler to document the critical details of an ML model in one place. Option D is incorrect. You can use SageMaker Ground Truth to create high-quality datasets for model training. SageMaker Ground Truth uses humans to label data for training. You cannot use SageMaker Ground Truth to document model details. So, that makes option A the correct answer. That's all for this question. Be sure to take note of any knowledge gaps that you might have identified while exploring this question. 

Let's get started with our last walkthrough question, which is from task statement 5.2. Recognize governance and compliance regulations for AI systems. The question reads, "A company plans to use AWS generative AI services to build an enterprise chatbot solution. The company must provide documentation that demonstrates that AWS complies with regulatory standards for AI systems. Which AWS service provides access to compliance reports?" Reading this question, can you identify any keywords or phrases? Also, what exactly is the question asking? A few keywords identified are "AWS generative AI services" to "build an enterprise chatbot" providing "documentation" that demonstrates that "AWS complies with regulatory standards for AI systems." You need to choose the AWS service that provides access to compliance reports. Now that we have examined the stem, identified keywords, and reviewed the requirements, let's explore the responses. Option A, AWS Trusted Advisor. Option B, AWS Audit Manager. Option C, Amazon Inspector. Or Option D, AWS Artifact. Pause the video if you need more time. Okay. Let's evaluate the options. Option A is incorrect. Trusted Advisor is a service that runs inspections on your AWS environment. Trusted Advisor can provide recommendations to optimize costs, improve performance, or address security issues. Trusted Advisor does not provide AWS compliance reports for customers. Option B is incorrect. Audit Manager is a service that continuously audits your AWS environment usage. Audit Manager can manage risk and compliance by using regulations and industry standards. Audit Manager does not provide AWS compliance reports for customers. Option C is incorrect. Amazon Inspector is a service that continually scans AWS workloads for software vulnerabilities and unintended networking exposure. Amazon Inspector can create findings to describe vulnerabilities, then Amazon Inspector can specify the affected resources and provide remediation guidance on how to fix the vulnerabilities. But Amazon Inspector does not provide AWS compliance reports for customers. So, that makes Option D correct. AWS Artifact provides a centralized location to download compliance-related reports and information from AWS. You can use AWS Artifact to obtain compliance reports and regulatory standards related to AI systems on AWS. That's all for this question. Be sure to take note of any knowledge gaps that you might have identified while exploring this question. Now is your chance to practice and dive deeper on Domain 5 topics before continuing to the official practice exam. If you are taking the enhanced course, you'll move on to bonus questions, flashcards, and a lab. Whether you're taking the standard or enhanced course, you'll see a list of additional resources to learn more about the topics covered. 

